9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong. You're watching the
China show. I'm Yvonne Man with David
Ingles.
>> Good morning. We're counting down to the
open of markets in greater China. Our
top stories today, stocks across the
region are tracking losses on Wall
Street as the Iran war escalates. Brent
crude is coming online. We're down about
2.3% in the opening moments. New York
crude is down 3% with the US considering
a range of options to address the spike
in prices. President Trump calls on
Iranian forces to lay down their arms
after almost a week of war, even as
Iran's missiles and drones target at
least five countries in the region. Also
coming up shortly, an exclusive with
PBOC advisor Huang Yiping, uh China's
economic goals and challenges as
lawmakers gather for the National
People's Congress.
And I'm Stephen Engle in Beijing, where
Chinese leaders are emphasizing
stability as the world faces rising
turbulence. We'll hear from top economic
officials, including the PBOC governor,
later today here in Beijing.
Welcome to the program. Lots to get into
and as far as markets go and the top
stories, this intersection between the
economic and political exercise, of
course, taking place in Beijing. We know
what the targets are. We'll have to find
out really uh what the economic team,
which holds a briefing later today, will
really fill in as far as the meat on the
bones conversations concerning. And of
course, that against the backdrop of
just broad risk aversion given what's
taking place currently and what will
perhaps
be the state of play over the weekend.
Oil prices on your screens coming up
very shortly. Uh we talked about this.
Was
uh to the upside going into the session
here Friday.
We had several headlines coming through
that might go in as far as explaining
why we are looking at declines in Brent
at the moment here. So, one is the US
president exploring options to bring oil
prices down to blunt the hit. Uh and
perhaps part of that would be this
license that the US is issuing to allow
some Russian oil sales to India as a way
to open up more crude back into the
broader broader market. Uh Shanghai
crude though, as you can see, is still
seeing some upside. We'll talk more
about the China implication in a moment
there. Uh dollar, gold the dollar
perhaps to blame why gold hasn't moved
to the upside as much as strength in the
US dollar and of course the
conversations around monetary policy. Uh
really when when when you look at the
ECB, for example, in pricing there now
at about 60
60-70% probability of a rate hike as the
next move this year. That's a moving
target there, of course, but that was
the move, of course, in bond bond
futures. Uh
terrible day on Thursday. Right, equity
markets are looking like this, right?
So, we're flat on S&P and Europe. Uh
we're looking at still some sharp
declines. We're coming off lows at the
day though on the Kospi index, which
goes into the China session today, which
really saw massive selling across the
Stock Connect yesterday coming through
net flows out of Hong Kong. We are
poised to open lower looking at futures
right now. Sub 180 on the 10-year yield
and we are set for a fifth weekly drop
as it pertains to MSCI China.
>> Yeah, I think part of it was maybe a bit
of disappointment that came out of M-
You see that where you you didn't get
sort of that bolder urgency for for
stimulus here. That what we saw earlier
in those in numbers in terms of the
softening of the growth target were all
kind of expected leading up to this. So,
was this sort of a a nothing burger for
markets here and that maybe they were
looking a little bit more in terms of
the consumption side of things as well.
So, uh there is that, but I think, you
know, given all the external
uncertainties, as you mentioned, it was
really a message of of projecting that
sort of stability uh that they really
are are really kind of aiming for right
now in the economy. Yeah, given the
events that are taking place of course
alongside
what's taking place of course in Beijing
and I think one
very targeted measure that we understand
of course was taking place of course as
China's looking to
limit the number of you know
refined oil products making itself
into the offshore markets in a way that
a lot of countries are actually doing
the same thing. They're looking at their
oil inventories, they're looking at
their energy mix, they're looking at
plan B, plan C's in the event we get
further disruptions there and I think
we've seen that for many central banks.
I think Malaysia was yesterday at
inflation coming out of the Philippines
as well. So it's going to be an
interesting
moving target how central banks
will be looking at what will likely be a
temporary spike in headline inflation
and whether they and markets should look
through that. At least there is a bit of
relief in oil prices here today but you
talk about the the best weekly sort of
performance we've seen in oil since
2022. So it hearkens back to of course
the Russian invasion of Ukraine. So you
know the fact that the US is weighing
measures not just what you talked about
those allowing those licenses of Russian
crude to India but also talking about
maybe tapping into the strategic
petroleum reserves as well and really
kind of releasing those inventories. You
heard that from Japan where the you know
refiners are asking the same with with
their own government to release these
reserves and of course the conserving of
fuel that you're seeing from China as
well. So that certainly is
a big feature here on really how you
know Asia is dealing with this potential
spike in oil prices and really Asia most
exposed right? When you talk about this
whole sell America buy Asia sort of
theme that certainly has been rocked
given this week.
>> That's reversed completely right? And
you know everyone was looking to the
gold as a haven play but the dollar
effectively sidelined sidelined those
moves right?
Back to the China story to really given
that backdrop that Ivana and know
uh outlined quite clearly for you guys
the Premier Li Chang alluded to these
rising challenges on the geopolitical
stage in his speech at the NPC. Have a
listen.
While recognizing our achievements, we
are also clear-eyed about the
difficulties and challenges we face.
The evolving external environment is
exerting a greater impact on China, and
geopolitical risks are rising. Global
economic momentum remains sluggish. Our
multilateralism and free trade are under
severe threat.
Joining us exclusively now from Beijing
is Huang Yiping, PBOC advisor and Dean
of the National School of Development at
Peking University. Uh
you know, Yiping, thank you so much for
joining us. Obviously, there's been a
lot on tap here. You heard from the
Premier himself about the need to really
kind of showcase this priority, which is
stability, in the face of all these
uncertainties here right now. Overall,
with the softer growth target and what
was lined out in this work report, your
overall reaction to what we heard from
the NPC so far?
Well, I think it's a quite a clear that
last year growth has been under uh
pressure, a downward pressure. Um so so
this is why the government is making a
lot of efforts to trying to boost the
growth through a number of things, um
including the macroeconomic policy,
fiscal and the monetary policy. But I
think we should recognize this is a
point of time that we probably should
not expect very aggressive uh big
stimulus package because um the growth
uh just structure adjustment has been an
ongoing process. The most important
thing um for the Chinese government and
uh for the policy makers is that uh
growth is stabilized, but uh um
alongside it um the the quality of
growth also improve. That's why they're
focusing a lot on the um the the new
productive force balance the growth um
and so on.
Yiping, this is David. Thank you so much
for joining us and I'm glad you brought
up the I guess the concept of patience,
which I think you're familiar with how
markets work, tend to be short-sided,
tend to look for big bazooka,
uh which is clearly not perhaps the
medicine that, you know, the current
structural reform that's needed right
now. What is the message you think that
markets should be taking in terms of
being more patient in terms of just
waiting for the economy to respond?
Well, I think there are a couple of
things that we probably should have paid
attention to. Um number one, growth has
been slowing down for the past
1 and 1/2 of decades. To some extent,
that's a natural process because China
has become a lot more advanced and
therefore it's natural to expect growth
to come down to some extent, but
obviously people feel that the slowdown
is a bit more than expected. That's why
macroeconomic policy is important and I
do expect the more policy actions from
both Ministry of Finance and the PBOC.
But at the same time, we should also
realize the slowing down is also a
result of a structure adjustment. The
old industries um
going out, but we needed to develop the
new industries. The change of the growth
model can only happen gradually and
through a lot of policy and a market
efforts. So, um bottom line is we
probably should not expect very
aggressive big bang macro policy to pro
to support the growth. Um this this is
not like a crisis time. You needed the
government to take a very decisive
actions. This is uh what I think Um, I I
take away from the government of policy
report basically saying growth needs to
be supported, but it needs to be done
through structure adjustment.
Structure adjustment, it there is this
sort of conflict though, right? That the
government prioritizing higher
manufacturing, innovation, this whole
kind of self-sufficiency
at a time when there's also this need to
boost consumption. How do you square the
two where one is about supply-side
adjustment, the other is more about
boosting demand? What does China need
more now?
Well, the government has listed the 10
policy priorities, but my takeaway from
the Central Economic Work Conference in
December last year, there are probably
three things the government want to
emphasize. Number one is expanding
domestic demand, the particularly
consumption. Number two is to develop
the new quality productive force. And
the number three is to resolve some of
the existing risks. So, I don't actually
think that the government is ignoring or
under emphasizing the importance of
boosting consumption, but consumption
can only be boosted through a gradual
process. You can't expect that the
government does something through macro
policy and the consumption picked up
dramatically. If you look at the
experiences of other East Asian
economies, successful ones like the
Japan, consumption share of GDP
increased over a very long period, like
three to four decades. So, we shouldn't
expect that the consumption problem will
go away immediately. But also, I should
remind you that consumption as a share
of GDP has been on the rise. The bottom
number what I saw was in 2010 when
consumption was only about 47% of our
Today, it's something like a 57% of our
GDP. So, consumption share of GDP is
already on the rise, but this is
probably not high enough. This is why
the government need to focus more on
income and the confidence of the
households. But, I think we all would
agree these things can only happen
gradually.
Can I ask you to about perhaps related
economic issue, which is the lack of
inflation? And I wonder
you're part of those discussions,
some of the inner discussions there as
you talk to officials, and I wonder what
the attitudes are. What is the tone in
the room
in as far as addressing the lack of
inflation?
Lack of inflation has been a concern for
the past couple of years. And the
broadly speaking, that's the imbalance
between domestic demand and the supply.
When supply is strong, demand is not
strong enough, you likely to see very
weak inflation. And I think that's what
is happening.
And the government now is one a couple
of reactions. Number one, in the past,
the government usually just set a 3% CPI
inflation target. From last year, it
took it down to around the 2%. Again,
repeated it at the 2% this year. So, I
think that's a much more pragmatic and a
practical target it's possible to
achieve. But, at the same time, I also
feel that the policy makers
making this new CPI go
a target as a more serious target, which
means the government probably will make
more efforts trying to achieve mild
inflation going forward. But, you
probably noticed that if you look at the
CPI like a monthly numbers from the
the the the third the fourth quarter
last year, it's already being picked up.
At the moment, it's it's around 1.2%.
So,
we are not it's a bit too early to say
the lack of inflation or low inflation
or some people call it deflation has
been a concern in the past, but there is
a hope that inflation is gradually
picking up.
It seems like we saw probably the
strongest vow yet to to end deflation in
this work report.
To get to 2% though, you know, from
where we are now,
how do we achieve it? Do you see any
more sorts of concrete measures that can
actually boost household income, as you
say, and inflation, too?
Well, I think that the most Well, some
people would argue that we need a more
aggressive monetary policy. That's
probably true, but in my own
view is that fundamentally, the reason
why inflation has been sluggish is
because of the imbalance between demand
and the supply. And this is why I think
expanding domestic demand, especially
domestic consumption, is really key.
Because if you have a like high pressure
for excess capacity, then it's difficult
for inflation to pick up. So, this is
why priority the policies focusing on
the livelihood of the people and
boosting consumption will be critical
for boosting for for for raising up
inflation in the coming year.
Yiping, there's a
there's a very important briefing in
Beijing later today. You have the PBOC,
you have the NDRC,
uh you know, the Ministry of Finance,
the the CSRC. Markets are looking at
that group, and they're waiting with
baited breath what they could announce
in as far as more targeted policies.
Should we have high expectations ahead
of that meeting? What do you think we
should be paying attention to?
Well, whether or not you have a high
expectations depending on where your
starting point is. I actually think our
Premier Li Qiang already outlined a very
clearly what is going to happen on the
fiscal policy 4% fiscal deficit rate and
some of the special government bond even
allocation or spending of these special
government government bond was already
outlined in government work report. And
I also expect monetary policy will
continue to ease because the current
stance is appropriately easing monetary
policy. So, it's possible that we might
see further rate cut and a cut to the
reserve requirement ratio. But, I don't
know and I doubt that
they will
lay down a clear road map about what is
exactly going going to happen. But, some
concrete measures from both the fiscal
and the monetary policy to support the
growth that should be expected and I
think that is quite certain. But, I I
also think that we should not be overly
ambitious in expecting very very
aggressive macroeconomic policy to
support the growth. That message policy
message was a very clear from Premier
Li's report yesterday.
Yeah, and I think the message was taken.
Too pragmatic I think is how we spoke
with Li Daokui yesterday that he it was
a pragmatic work report is how he he
described it. I I think before you go
just one last question.
Uh we're aware of course what's going on
across the world, high energy prices,
the spiking global energy prices.
Uh do we need can we look through that
in as far as the the effects to
inflation in China's concern. How do you
look at that issue?
Well,
whether or not that have a big impact on
inflation depends on number one what
happens to the energy prices. But as I
said and we discussed it just a minute
ago,
at the moment the key concern is lack of
inflation, not too high inflation. So if
the uncertainties created by the recent
geopolitical event cause some rise in
the energy price and also inflation
rate, it won't be a devastating for
China. And it obviously will have some
impact. I think the greatest concern
here is number one whether that would
endanger energy security for China. And
the number two,
whether or not that will
further affect
the trade potential going forward. These
are the things I think we should pay
more attention to on top of the
uncertainties created. So overall, I'm
not too worried about the material
impact on the Chinese economy. But
uncertainty is something that we all
hate.
Huang Yiping, thank you so much. We are
grateful for the time, of course, and we
hope to speak again very soon. Have a
good Friday. Have a good weekend. PBOC
advisor and dean of the National School
of Development at Peking University.
Just counting down to the open of
markets, Shanghai, Shenzhen and here in
Hong Kong. And updates on all the latest
developments
in the Middle East coming up next. This
is the China Show.
President Trump says Tehran is calling
to make a deal as the US and Israeli
military campaign continues. Let's bring
in our politics editor Laura Davison.
You're getting a lot of mixed messages.
I think from the foreign minister of
Iran did speak with NBC News about you
know they're not asking for a cease-fire
they're not talking about negotiations
at this point and even just even the
threat of some sort of attack on US
soil. That certainly continues to you
know rock a lot of oil markets and oil
traders out there here but what what do
we know about the Iran response moving
forward now? It's really unclear even
just in the past few minutes about what
sort of capabilities they have left. The
US just announced you know moments ago
that they had struck this drone carrier
out in the ocean. You know that has
really been Iran's strong suit here
being able to use these inexpensive
drones that require a lot of force and
effort from from the countries they're
attacking to to repel. But the the US
also has kind of sent some mixed
messages on exactly how it's doing with
its munition stockpile. You know Trump
has said we could fight this war
forever. We have you know munition
stored all over the globe. You had Pete
Hegseth saying the same but also you
have this meeting of defense CEOs at the
White House on on Friday to come in to
talk about replenishing stockpiles here.
So there's a lot of you know sort of
mixed messaging and I think a lot of
projecting on both sides about how much
power they have and what that can mean
in terms of you know
coming days or coming weeks from now. In
terms of the more to your point more
tangibles in trying to offset this
massive spike in oil prices what else do
we know is could be in the cards here?
We know that this is the thing that is
top of mind for the White House right
now. We have Doug Burgum the interior
secretary who's down in Venezuela this
week meeting with Delcy Rodriguez
talking about how they could perhaps you
know open up some of that Venezuelan oil
flows. We just heard from the Treasury
that they're going to allow a one-month
reprieve essentially allowing
Indian refiners to buy Russian oil.
That's a huge deal. That's a 180 policy
shift from where we were just a couple
weeks ago with Trump you know
threatening to slap tariffs on India if
they didn't move away from Russian oil.
So this is you kind of seeing the
administration looking for any leverage
they have that could potentially ease up
on the oil shock that we're seeing. You
know this is something that Trump you
know even before this you know he's very
attuned to energy prices. You know, this
is one of the things he touts as one of
his big political wins and has
acknowledged that, you know, oil prices
are going to go up and he sees this as
both a political risk as well as a
business risk and this is you know, kind
of where you see the administration
scrambling. It also indicates that they
realize that the war is going to go on
for a while and they need to address
this
versus, you know, kind of solving the
root cause of of the war. Yeah, and
perhaps why people are some saying that,
you know, Russia might be actually
benefiting from from all this and the
situation in the Middle East right now.
Laura, thank you. Laura Davison there
are politics editor joining us with the
latest when it comes to Iran. It take a
look at what comes to the pre-market at
least when it comes to Hang Seng. We're
ending the week slightly on the better
side of things, but we're just talking
about upside of about a a fifth of 1%.
Futures are still in negative territory
here this morning, but we're watching
very closely what happens with the
currency as well. 691
here right now. I believe the fix hasn't
come out, but it actually has, but we'll
check on it later here and really what
has happened and certainly that dollar
strength has been the big headwind and
headache for Asia here this week. This
is Bloomberg.
Right. Going into the open today,
couple of minutes away so we are set to
open lower in the Asia market. It's the
opposite when you look at Hong Kong
markets.
Pay attention to Southbound flows.
Record amount of net selling
yesterday. So Southbound flows are key
given of course where we are with Hong
Kong and those flows there. Flip the
page please and let's have a look at
where we are on a regional basis and
Korea's very much in focus and that
board tells you everything you need to
know and why we're looking at Korean
markets. We're down 3%
in the first 90 minutes of trade.
There's plenty more ahead. This is the
China show.
>> Right, welcome back. You're watching the
China show counting down to the open of
markets. The Friday session is just
ahead. Higher for Hang Seng, Hong Kong
generally speaking, lower for the
A-share markets. It's really been a week
where oil prices globally,
gas prices related to that have spiked
significantly. It The haven play showed
up in the dollar and not so much in gold
and my that might have to do with
positioning, but it certainly upended
some of the
some of the assumptions out there in
terms of the big winners emerging from
this, but it's still very risk aversion
going into
>> Yeah, we're basically at around $80 oil
for Brent as well as WTI now, which you
know, it is a substantial shift in just
one week. We're talking about nearly 20%
gains when it comes to crude. Certainly
that does change the calculus for a lot
of these markets in Asia-Pacific. When
you take a look at markets like Korea,
maybe that's part of the selling and
part of the whole AI unwind as well. But
then again, today when Korea is
underperforming, it's interesting it's
not really following the oil price
that move that we're seeing today. It
could be more about this whole
you know, this report about US now
considering requiring permits for
Nvidia, for Nvidia, the AMDs of the
world when it comes to their AI chip
sales. Like they're going to be more of
a gatekeeper. So we're watching the chip
space very closely here today in China
as well. Onshore markets are doing this
right now, slightly to the downside
here. We are seeing Shanghai crude
though at least taking a bit of a
breather here after what has been a
massive week when it comes to how how
punchy that crude price has been, right?
So we are down some 6% when it comes to
Shanghai futures this morning. Large
caps are mostly to the downside here
today. We talked about really checking
the chip space very closely. Here's how
the Hong Kong market is doing because
what we saw with MSCI China, we're on
course for one of the worst weeks since
liberation day essentially here. So that
brings us back to nearly a year ago.
Uh of really just the disruptions that
we've been seeing. H S Tech certainly is
that kind of sore part of it where where
are seeing some gains here today. There
has been some key earnings to tell you
about as well. So Billy Billy that came
out beating expectations. Uh we have to
talk a little bit more about what we've
been seeing
uh with the chip space as we talked
about here today. Uh there was another
company that reported earnings as well
that did I have to
I can't think of it off the top of my
head. I'll let me check for you but yeah
It's Friday bear in mind but that right
now we're seeing what comes out of the
meeting.
>> in the world too. HSBC that stock's down
1%. Uh some of the property names the
Hong Kong land and the like but that's
listed in Singapore has been doing quite
well but they're also talking about uh
when it comes to this sort of recovery.
Um
there is going to be a lot of questions
about what what leads to tech now to
outperform. Obviously with MPC you know
some are saying you know there was a bit
of disappointment what we got from in
terms of the targets and the like
nothing kind of new but keep in mind
there is this big kind of joint economic
briefing coming through later on uh from
China. So it's it's with the PBOC NDRC
and Ministry of Finance. So you know
Huang Yiping just just told us that
maybe we won't see kind of big
announcements but certainly uh look for
the nuances and what they could be
saying here in terms of how to boost the
economy moving forward. Um then again
that's why continue watch those energy
names uh in China today. So we are
seeing a bit of breather when it comes
to oil markets and you know as we talked
about here some of the options the US
administration is looking at to cool
down prices whether it's releasing
inventories whether it's even allowing
these licenses uh to sell Russian oil to
India uh which is quite a sort of a
U-turn uh in terms of strategy there. Uh
it's a pretty mixed picture here. We're
watching some of these electric names as
well they they're largely been seen as
benefiting from what we saw when it
comes to MPC. Uh also when it comes to
the chip space as well. So uh these
draft regulations according to our
sources that US officials have written
could restrict AI chip shipments to
anywhere in the world without US
approval. It's a mixed bag there.
Uh but you are seeing some of the
national champions like SMIC, Huawei,
and Xiaomi potentially could actually
benefit from this as well. So, they're
slightly to the upside here today. Uh
earnings to tell you about so uh we
talked about Bilibili. That was one.
>> JD.com That was the one. Gosh, it
slipped my mind.
So, first loss in 4 years, uh which
really just goes to show, you know,
where we are in terms of consumer
sentiment and the like. The stock is
still up about 3.7%.
Bilibili, we actually did see the ADRs
Yeah.
>> as actually had a different reaction. Um
so, the the beating of estimates not
really doing much for the stock here
today, but Prada also uh was actually a
good set of earnings given what they've
been doing with the Miu Miu brand and
the like here. Uh but yes, uh lots to
digest here as we wrap up what has been
a very turbulent week, Dave.
>> Uh it's and it's what, a few days
into March Madness and I forget the year
we're in, really. I mean, this was
supposed to be a year where we're
talking, right? This was supposed to be
a week where we would go really go deep
and big on NPC. We have, but it's we've
had to really divvy up just airtime and
everything else because of what's taking
place
uh in the Middle East and hence, you
know, Asia's down 1%. Korea's having a
terrible week and we're down, I think,
for a fifth week on MSCI China. So, the
bear market went into a week and then
you had a war start and I think we're
now set for the worst week since
Liberation Day for MSCI China. Yeah.
This time
uh last year, if you if you think about
it, if you're keeping track of time and
struggling not struggling like we are
here. Um joining us here on set to help
piece together the
perhaps unclear path of markets from the
current point, Kevin Liu, managing
director and chief officer of China
overseas strategist at CICC Research.
Kevin, it's very nice to see you. Good
morning. What a time and I'm struggling
to figure out where to start with you,
but
I guess
what is your assessment of risk reward
in the overall market these given
everything that we just mentioned.
Well, right now, what
what actually affect the market is first
thing, the risk aversion due to the
conflicts.
In rare cases, if you translate into
liquidity issue, meaning that people are
selling everything, literally
everything. And once they people are
even selling the gold and the US
treasury just for cash. Yes.
>> Because they need need to meet the
demand for redemption, for margin calls.
But that's rare cases triggered by the
conflicts. What we can watch for is the
US dollar. Whenever you see US dollar
rise suddenly out of the blue, it's not
a good sign. It's because not because
people are loving US dollar, it's
because they need the cash. So, that
actually explains why current markets
had this disorderly sell-off. But
whenever this stabilize, you will see
the market recover, although with some
scars. So, the liquidity creates the
scars, the fundamental heal them. Right
now, we don't know the duration and
severity of the conflicts. But we what
we can see to look at the valuation. For
example, Hang Seng technology has been
underperform long before the conflicts,
although it suffered a hit from the
conflicts as well. But right now it's
trading one standard deviation below
average, and it is entering overshoot
oversold territory. So, I would say it
still needs individual stocks catalyst
like internet, like AI to become a good
trade. But becoming not a bad trade
gradually due to its valuation
attractiveness.
>> What would it take to for for China tech
to be more of that a good AI trade?
Well, it definitely depend on the
so-called AI narrative and also those
companies capability to do more capex
and show their AI model to be more
profitable and also to beat other
models. That is why actually Hang Seng
technology underperform because people
are thinking, "Okay, you're lagging
behind, I'll spend less money, and then
we're looking for potential losers due
to the AI development, and then why not
just be back to the basic layer, which
is the fundamental infrastructure and
the key materials. The In terms of
relative performance between onshore and
offshore, I think onshore has held up
quite well. In fact, Shanghai composite
is doing quite well. Uh you had massive
selling of Hong Kong stocks across the
stock connect. What does that does that
tell you anything in terms of just
short-term appetite among Chinese
investors? Well, yes, there are a few
explanation behind that. If you look at
A and H shares and even within H shares,
Hang Seng and Hang Seng technology, they
look quite different.
>> Right. Well, let me put this way. If the
overall macro backdrop is like a
flattening credit cycle, actually the
government report told us uh the
physical deficit remain largely same, is
consistent with what we expect for this
year. The overall uh macro
cycle credit cycle is flattening.
Money will naturally chase those
direction that's still going to generate
credit uh potential for credit
expansion.
But what if the featured stocks, for
example, Hang Seng technology, are
disliked temporarily by the market, is
not representing the so-called credit
direction for temporary right now, uh
not to mention the uh headline headwinds
from the liquidity, uh that's why why
they actually underperform. So, A share
market compared to H share market, they
are better in fundamentals and also
liquidity. Uh that's also the reason why
they underperform. Did we get anything
new out of NPC, you think, in terms of
what sectors could outperform in this
market? Uh the key NPC message is that
uh the policymaker are relatively happy
with the growth rate, and they're
accepting the the growth rate at this
level, so that they can meet the target
for 2035 to achieve moderately developed
country
at roughly about 4.2% growth. And then
using this time to ease the pressure for
local governments to do the rebalance of
the economy. So what you see from the
MPC is that they stress more on to build
stronger domestic markets, but they cut
the subsidy for the trading policy. So
we guess they probably provide more
support for the consumption market. For
the service consumption market. And then
they allocate 800 billion more money to
the so-called national strategy major
project and security capacity in key
areas. For example, they mentioned
future energy, hydrogen energy for
example, and intelligent economy, AI,
modern industrial
development. Those are the key focus
probably top priority in this year.
Uh best opportunities right now in
China's equity market. Well, within the
Chinese market uh
space, there are two ways to see seek
gains.
If our assumption is that given what
happened to the overall credit cycle,
the overall index room is relatively
capped, for example, for Hang Seng Index
for Hong Kong market, we can find gains
in two ways. First, correction. Hang
Seng technology. It give you more room
by, you know,
a lot of a correction right now. And
second, just one thing we try to follow
the lead of credit expansion.
To find the sectors where still have the
potential to expand their credits.
Meaning, you know, they have promising
demands and also government support. AI
technology, the overall space.
Either is software model or
all key infrastructure hardware and
non-ferrous metal cyclicals. Those are
the key directions. Fantastic. Okay,
that's a good very good leading
indicator there. Very very tangible to
credit expansion and credit demand.
Kevin, thank you so much. Kevin Liu
there, managing director chief offshore
China and overseas strategist at CICC
Research. Right, in the opening we're
going on 11 minutes now cash market
session. Hang Seng is up ever so
slightly.
CSI is down although we are
Are we coming off highs of the day?
Coming off lows of the day? Anyway,
we'll get into all of that in a moment.
Hang Seng Tech the early outperformer
this Friday. Many more ahead. This is
the China Show.
Right, welcome back. You're watching the
China Show. We're trying to piece
together really the situation across the
Strait of Hormuz and we're looking at
various data sets. I'll get to this this
this vessel this Iron Maiden vessel. I'm
sure you've probably seen the story on
the Bloomberg terminal and elsewhere as
well.
Number one is let me tell you about
Vortexa. Fantastic set of numbers.
They've dropped these daily updates in
our inboxes and I think the latest one
here coming through in terms of relative
vessel volumes through that part of the
world, right? So, whether you're talking
tankers or dry bulk, it's dried up
substantially in in recent days or so.
So, we're looking at for example,
transits fell from a January average of
40 ships per day
to just a few on March 2. By March 3,
Vortexa data recorded only one tanker
making the trip. So, that's as as of
about at the I wouldn't say the peak of
it, at the start of it at earlier in the
week. Now, what are we showing here?
Bloomberg map, right? That is Strait of
Hormuz. This is There's the Gulf. This
is where we are as far as and as far as
Iron Maiden's concerned. So, Feb 18,
about 3 weeks back, it was docked
in one of Dubai ports here Jebel Ali.
What happened was
it then transited through, spent a
couple of days uh
on on on on on on on on different parts,
of course, within the Gulf, got stuck
uh in and around that time in about Feb
20s or so,
um and then we understand we understand
it changed its signaling and at this
point in time, this was taking place, if
I'm talking from an Asia perspective in
terms of time, because this was last
seen UTC about an hour back at about
this time. This was around I would say
about midnight Asia time. It's then
managed to cross This is dry bulk, by
the way. And we understand it is headed
towards the Asia-Pacific. And we
understand it's not information that's
stated on on the vessel itself. It's
headed toward China. Now, is that a
route, literally and figuratively, we
can take in order to alleviate the
supply crunch we are seeing right now?
Uh we know, of course, China's friendly
uh to uh to to to players in that part
of the world. And might that be actually
uh one of the things that makes safe
passage safe, yeah, given, of course,
the uh connections?
>> You mentioned the change in the signage,
right? When it was around that kind of
Omani coastline, right?
>> we are right now currently at.
>> to note, before that, it was called it
was labeled four orders.
Quickly, once it got to there, it
changed to China owner.
>> And then it was able to kind of safely
go through.
Uh there's a lot of questions,
obviously, on what this means. I mean,
they're claiming that they are a China
uh order here. Uh let let's bring in our
owner here. I'll just bring in Nicholas
Lua, who may be kind of piece things
together for us. So, so they're claiming
to be Chinese owned, Nicholas. Uh tell
us a bit more. I mean, why would a ship
claim to be Chinese as it crosses the
strait?
Well, I think it's It's really useful
strategy in order to bypass a very
dangerous choke point right now, Ivon.
And I think one thing to note about the
Iron Maiden and what a great name for a
ship that had the guts iron constitution
to go through Hormuz yesterday, right?
Uh
It it's it's a it's a terrific idea and
I think to be fair to Iron Maiden, it's
not completely not Chinese linked,
right? It's operated, at least according
to the intel we have, by a Chinese
operator. And I think there are some
links to a Japanese owner. So, that's
kind of why the picture is a little
unclear.
Uh that's it. Iron Maiden isn't unique
in that ships passing Hormuz on a normal
day do routinely switch their ownership.
You know, they they switch their four
other sign to something like Chinese
owner or Russian owner. And I mean, you
can figure out, right? It's a good
strategy for like trying to get around
some of the dangerous like even on a
normal day it's worth reporting those
are dangerous waters. So, finding a way
to make yourself uh more protected, like
even if it's not insurance, that's
that's something.
>> It's not nothing.
Yeah, that's a good that's a good point
you bring up because people tend to
forget that ownership can actually
change.
Uh can actually change uh in the same
way. I think it's just trying to piece
together the timing where it was and
when it actually took place and whether
or not it actually took place. That's a
good that's a good qualifier there.
Well, the the broader context here, so
we're a few days into this, Nicholas.
What do we know in terms of how badly
hit the region is in terms of the fuel
shortage? What What are we not receiving
that we would have ordered at this point
in time?
I'm not going to be cagey about it. Uh
it's uh in some ways a fuel trader's
worst nightmare right now, right? Like
basically uh as good as nothing is
passing through Hormuz. Um we've already
seen China, the Asia Pacific's uh third
largest oil exporter, cut say say that
it's not going to export anymore, right?
Now, to be fair to China, like a lot of
its production is meant for the domestic
market. It supplies uh outside of China
on a quota basis, so there are some
limits on what it can supply. But I
think the rest of the regions also
really edgy, right? Like the Japanese
refiners as we reported yesterday have
actually approached the government
asking for strategic stockpiles to be
released to them. And I think Japan is
particularly under threat because unlike
some of the other like merchant refiners
in the region, Japan is a very
conservative country, once upon a time
safety man buying almost all its flows
from the Arab Gulf. Guess where it's
been hit? The Arab Gulf. So I think
that's why some of the major exporters
are in trouble. I think some of the
other
refiners have a little less a little
more room to wiggle. I'll give you an
example like South Korea, right? A lot
of its refiners are mega producers.
They're designed to take advantage of
the
need for supply here in Asia. So they
they produce to sell, right? And they
have a relatively diversified supply
compared to Japan. If you look at Korea,
they buy from the US, they buy from the
AG. So even if some barrels are lost
coming out of the Persian Gulf, there
are ways to get around it. And of
course, I think you might have seen the
headlines already like the US is also
letting Indian refiners
uh have a pass on like Russian oil at
least for the time being for a month so
that the current like supply shock can
be tamed a little bit. I like to point
you of course to all prices, my bread
and butter. Those are coming down a
little bit even in a week. So we're sort
of ending the the day slightly down uh
the starting the day slightly down, but
not to forget this is still the biggest
surge since 2022, right? So there is an
escalation. There is real concern about
supply shocks. Uh we've seen uh
producers lose some of their barrels. Uh
we've seen people start holding fuel in
certain markets including Singapore.
But at the same time
I think Trump is aware and the global
balances are very tight and there are
ways that we're trying to the global
market geopolitical players are trying
to ease off some of those supply shocks.
Nicholas, I think that that's a good
point as well that, you know, China does
have options, a lot of options in terms
of being able to manage its energy mix
temporarily. And of course, I think one
of the things you mentioned, too, is
they're telling some of the refiners to
not export and just keep keep keep the
supply in.
What do we know specifically about what
China is trying to do? And how is that
affected domestic energy prices?
I think it's clear that domestic energy
prices have come up a fair bit, I think,
because even as there is no
even as like a lot of the supply that's
produced is meant for the domestic
market,
it's not immune to global supply shocks.
I will say look closely at what China
does with its strategic petroleum
reserves, right? The SPR. We spent a
whole like a good chunk of the second
half of last year talking about how
China's been stockpiling barrels. It's
been trying to build its crude supplies
in order to bolster its energy security,
right? And let's not forget that that
came last year in a year when the
geopolitical environment was becoming
more uncertain. In a time like now,
things have gotten absolutely crazy,
right? So, it's precisely this kind of
shock that a strategic petroleum reserve
is meant to protect against, right? So,
I keep an eye on what China decides when
it comes to the although even then, we
acknowledge, of course, that's a very
opaque conversation and it would take
you know, you have to keep your ears
really close to the ground to figure out
what's going on.
Mhm.
>> Well, you are on our speed dial for
that. Nicholas Wu, I thank you so much.
>> Your eyes and ears.
Thank you so much for that.
The our extension to the energy world.
Subscribers can read, by the way, on
more about how the crisis in Iran is
shaking or has shaken the Gulf's image
of stability. That's today's big take.
Do check that out. Highly recommended.
Lots more coming up here on The China
Show.
>> Right. Let's have a look at Chinese
tech, right? So, yeah, you might have
missed the fact that we are in earnings
in earning season right now in China. A
couple of reports out, jd.com, bilibili,
couple of more are coming through as
well later today. Keep an eye on that,
more on that later in a moment. Oil and
gold in focus given of course the
divergence between the two.
We were expecting in fact both in
parallel to the upside, but currently we
are that's on a weekly basis. Right now
oil is actually giving back some of the
gains maybe following some steps that
the US is taking to
take the sting out of oil prices.
Upstream players like PetroChina, more
downstream like Sinopec are down about
3% and of course looking at the broader
city across Chinese market and it's also
NPC week and there is extremely
important press briefing
taking place later today.
>> Well, several, right? First it's the the
big eco one of all the Avengers that we
talk about, right?
The DRC's, the PBOC's, the Ministry of
Finance and on Sunday there's also Wang
Yi. Yes.
>> The Foreign Minister that's going to be
speaking as well and he's been quite a
vocal about you know China's
condemnation of of course of this Iran
situation. So certainly there's a lot
there. But right now it is Hang Seng, it
is offshore beating onshore markets here
today. Well, much more in the next hour.
You're watching The China Show.
>> Welcome back to the China show. Here's a
look at the HSI half hour in the
session. It is Friday, right? We're
we're glad to get to the end of the
week. And you are seeing at least a
little bit upside when it comes to
equities after what has been a pretty
volatile week. We're we're all trying to
be like the Iron Maiden to just to get
through the week really in some ways.
But certainly there's going to be a lot
of questions about what we what we're
going to do in the weekend here given
the situation when it comes to Iran.
Continues to to to you know, we're
talking about casualties that they've
been racked up as well. They're still
talking about attacks this morning as
well. And of course the Iranian response
and what the US could do potentially
too. If they're talking about
potentially they're ready for any
scenario including an attack on US soil.
That certainly did rattle markets just a
bit here. But at least today it seems
like the the reassurances that we're
getting from the US administration about
how to calm this sort of energy spike,
right? Whether it's releasing you know,
strategic petroleum reserves, whether
it's talking about allowing licenses for
Russian oil to to make it way to India.
You know, those are certainly helping to
calm and cool markets here this Friday
morning.
>> Yeah, at least
at least for now. And I think it in some
ways also helps that some of these
markets were positioned already quite
badly
going into a week where things
escalated. So you are already getting
some This is an extremely perhaps given
everything else that's going on in the
greater scheme of things trivial and
really on the margin. Just talking about
value in the market when really this
week's a good reminder that you know, we
all talk and walk like tomorrow is
promised. I know that sounds a bit up in
the clouds, but you know, it's not.
Anyway, that's just to say
some pockets of this equity market are
doing well that the Hang Seng Tech Index
broadly speaking though here's a
statistic for you speaking of
uh
Asia Pacific is now down we're now down
7% on the week. Last time we had a week
that bad was going back to March of
2020. Remember what happened then?
That's when the global pandemic really
hit markets extremely hard.
Um anyway, um a lot of that also has to
do with the fact that Korea's unwind
quite substantially. Uh have a look at
where we are Europe and European
futures. Um we're actually signaling
some level of stability which I think
might be a good thing going into the
session there. But we have a full
trading day left. There's lots of
developing story of course taking place
in Iran and really what the weekend
could actually also hold for us.
Yeah. Um
We'll see. I mean it gives us time to
kind of take a break here but certainly
when it comes to what's going on on the
ground that is a
going to continue to be a a very fluid
situation after we we have heard that
Iran launched a fresh wave of missile
and drone strikes across the Gulf as
well. Uh President Trump is saying that
Tehran is calling to make a deal as a US
and Israeli military campaign continues
and Iran steps up of course with those
barrages that we just mentioned.
Meanwhile, Iran's foreign minister told
NBC News his country is ready for any
scenario including a ground invasion.
Our soldiers are prepared for any
scenario. I I when I said that the the
are waiting for them it didn't mean that
we are waiting for for continuation of
the war. No. What we have prepared
ourselves to to confront with any
scenario, with any eventuality, any
possibility and we know that we can
handle that.
Let's bring in Ryan Davis and our
Bloomberg politics editor. Um things
still seem quite intense. Uh what are we
expecting into the weekend now? Uh this
is really unclear. I mean the language
that we're hearing from both sides are
really language of escalation, you know,
that the Iranians saying that they're,
you know, prepared for a ground strike,
you know, Trump uh sort of musing about
whether there could be some sort of land
strike in the US. This really being uh
you know, a a
you know, these are not two sides who
are trying to look for an off-ramp at
least publicly. You know, Trump said uh
that the Iranians want to talk. The
Iranians in several different ways uh
essentially every day this week have
refuted that claim that they're looking
to negotiate at least out in public. So,
this is is continuing to be sort of a
real muscular postures from both sides.
Really important thing to watch here is
who is Trump meeting with as we head
into Friday and the weekend in the US.
He's having these defense CEOs Raytheon
and Lockheed coming to the Oval Office
to talk about you know US weapons
capability and production capability of
additional munitions. He's also then
scheduled to go down to Florida. He'll
be uh meeting at this Shield of the
Americas Summit. He's also meeting with
House Republicans early next week as
well. So, who is in his ear? Who's
telling him, "Hey, like yes, go press on
the gas." and who's also saying, "Hey,
let's pull back." You know, we know that
the kind of the the one skeptic going
into this was J.D. Vance who was not
very convinced that he wanted to get
involved in some you know larger
conflict, but he told Trump, "If we do
it, go big." So, this is kind of the the
the voices that you hear and Trump is
you know we've seen as he's appeared
publicly over the past several days
really kind of figuring out in real time
you know what he's going to do, testing
out different messages. This is how he
operates. He just fired his
Secretary of Homeland Security
and then he he did that by asking House
Republicans for days beforehand, "Should
I fire her?" getting messages. We're
seeing that play out also in real time
with Iran.
What are we hearing and I want to ask
you about the separate meetings his team
is
having right now as pertains to oil
prices, but I want to ask you too in
terms of what's happening in the Middle
East itself in terms of evacuations and
the latest attacks there and some of the
embassies because there's a lot of news
out there and it's very very confusing
for viewers here. So, what are what can
you tell us about that front? Yeah, I
mean we have I think it was the the 12th
strike from Israel into Iran today you
know and and Iran hit back. We have you
know a series of closures both you know
sort of countrywide closures as well as
the US Embassy
you know
shelter in place orders essentially you
know ordering people to to to stay stay
at home for their safety. You know, this
is going to be a you know this last for
a week. It's kind of like a COVID
closure, right? If stuff is shut down
for a week, not a big deal. Suddenly, if
people can't move, commerce can't
happen, it's not safe for people to
travel. You know, we've seen, you know,
what, something like 23,000 flight
cancellations now in the region. This
starts to become, uh, you know, a a
massive, um, you know, economic hit and,
you know, really kind of calls into
question sort of the viability of not
just, uh, you know, just not just
travel, not just oil prices, but kind of
day-to-day life in an entire region.
Uh, Doug Burham, the the Interior
Secretary has talked about options that
they're weighing. I mean, they're
they're considering everything to try to
at least cool down oil prices right now.
What are they actually considering at
the moment?
>> So, we've seen them articulate a couple
things. One is that, you know, having
this insurance for ships to pass
through, uh, the Strait of Hormuz. We
also saw, uh, you know, just a this
30-day reprieve for, um, you know,
Indian refiners to be able to purchase
Russian oil.
That's really what we've seen in terms
of ideas. Also, a caution that any sort
of levers that they could pull right
now, uh, you know, likely would not have
immediate effect. There's also the, uh,
Strategic Petroleum Reserve in the US.
They could tap that. That would also be
a huge, uh, deal. But right now, the the
the posture we've really seen from Trump
is that he's just kind of hoping this
resolves itself. He even said today, uh,
that, you know, the oil prices have
stabilized. If you look at the terminal,
that's not at all the case.
Laura, thank you.
Laura Davison there getting us up to
speed here with all the latest that's
come through. In case you missed it,
there's a headline that just crossed, I
would say about 10 minutes back, that
the IDF says it has begun, to Laura's
point, a broad wave of strikes in in
Tehran.
Okay. Uh, let's head over down to
Bangkok. Uh, the IMF Asia in 2050
conference is underway and certainly
this is quite a backdrop to
conversations there. And our co-anchor,
of course, Bloomberg Inside anchor,
Haslinda Amin, is there on the ground
for us. Has, given everything else
that's going on, what can we expect from
your conversations there?
Oh, you bet. Iran will be front and
center. It is day two of the IMF Asia in
2050 conference here in the Thai
capital, David. It's the fund's
signature event in the region and brings
together policy makers, corporate
leaders. Uh later this hour, we'll be
speaking with Malaysian Finance Minister
Amir Hamzah Azizan. And later, we'll
talk to the heads of the Philippine and
Sri Lankan Central Banks, as well as IMF
chief Kristalina Georgieva. That and
much, much more right ahead. Keep it
here with us. This is Bloomberg.
Bottom line is we probably should not
expect very aggressive big
macro policy to prove to support the
growth. Um these this is not like a
crisis time. You needed the government
to take a very decisive actions. This is
uh what I think um I I I take away from
the government of policy report.
Basically saying growth need to be
supported, but it needs to be done
through structure adjustment.
That was Huang Yiping there, a PBOC
advisor, speaking to us earlier. And it
was interesting take from, of course,
Huang about just like there we're not
really in a crisis mode uh when it comes
to the economy. So, you know, it is sort
of pragmatic. I guess it's realistic for
them
uh to kind of set these sort of growth
targets in some way. Uh but he
mentioned, right, it it is that need to
still boost household income, that this
tilt towards consumption, that people
still need to kind of be mindful of here
moving forward.
>> Yeah, it doesn't mean that because there
was no bazooka, it doesn't mean that
they haven't acknowledged the the fact
that they it is something that they need
to do as far as the checklist goes,
right? It's just that
the the specific challenge he says that
the economy faces, which is consumption,
right? Uh doesn't take months, doesn't
take one flip of the switch and then it
it in fact it it it it it responds. I
think the the example he used earlier on
was the example of you know when he said
when you look at success stories in East
Asia of economies that managed to get
their consumption going.
>> Japan? Japan it took four decades he
says to get there, right? So he said you
need to be patient. He's of course
someone who
uh obviously is advising at the very top
in China but he's also quite aware of
how market dynamics work and how
impatient markets can get. So I think
his message was be patient and it's
going to get there and it doesn't mean
because we didn't talk about it it's not
it's not a known problem. And I think
when you mentioned about the the fiscal
you know most economies are saying the
fact that they're keeping fiscal
a- a- around the 4% of GDP level. That's
a budget deficit. Yeah that is still in
some ways at record levels, right? Um
from the COVID days and the like and
certainly there is some question about
you know if you talk about some of the
quotas and that you know that were
carried over from from last year
there's still plenty of that. So they're
they're they're keeping a lot of this
quite ample here. So the policy room a
lot of economists are saying for for
this year is is not insignificant
basically that we need to kind of look
for in the near future even though we
didn't hear of any sort of big big
bazookas Dave mentioned here. So
certainly that is one thing to watch. He
also talked about when it comes to the
Iran situation and maybe that sort of
inflationary shock that we need to
really bring up inflation in China. That
maybe this could be in some ways a
welcome move for the PBOC and the
Central Banks. It's not going to be yeah
I think when we asked that question
towards the end right? He said he
reminded us immediately that didn't we
just talk about the lack of inflation?
>> was about the lack of inflation. This
could be a lack of inflation. This could
be a good thing for China.
>> thing. But I think what the other thing
he said though as it pertains to that is
it when it comes to energy security
that's a bigger issue that we'll need to
keep an eye on because of course of
everything else that's going on and um
you know China imports I think the
majority of its fuel fuel needs for
example, a lot of that of course comes
from several places in the world. So,
do we need to look through the inflation
spike we'll see? It might be different
for China
in terms of how other central bankers
are looking at that issue, right? So,
we're now starting to talk about how
hikes might be the next move. That's the
ECB and of course has has this whole uh
list of central bankers who will be
talking us through
>> Southeast Asia in particular might be
hit hard, right? Asia, Philippines, uh
and the like that. Uh the other thing of
course to to to to talk about here is
when you look at the earning story.
That's something of course that has
featured not as prominently as it
usually does
given everything else that's going on,
but I think when you tie that together
with the tech sell-off and the tech
rebound we're seeing today, uh it just
might be something to keep an eye on.
Because I imagine it won't be a tail I
won't be surprised myself if we see
when Tencent for example reports in
within the next few weeks, that could be
a catalyst in fact for someone to take
advantage of these, you know, this
decline in Hang Seng Tech Index in a
very big way.
>> Yeah, and and this is interesting too,
this this scoop that we had uh about
what the US administration is is mulling
or considering here uh when it comes to
Nvidia, the AMDs, and what they export
and who they export to, right?
Potentially uh making themselves in some
ways an AI gatekeeper on who gets access
to to US chips. That could be a
potential problem for for a lot of
Nvidia suppliers in this part of the
world. You take a look at how maybe
that's why you're seeing Korea sell off
uh here today. Uh this is what the
impact has been. Look at SK Hynix, look
at Samsung. Uh we're down some 2 to 3%
here right now despite the fact that oil
prices have come down and come off a bit
from the highs uh of this week. So, uh
for more let's bring in our tech
correspondent Annabelle Droulers on the
scoop and what we know what the US is
considering now. Yeah, well, this is
quite significant because it's it's
really the most uh well, it's the
largest step we've seen really toward
global export strategy since the the
Trump administration repealed the AI
diffusion act that was initiated under
President Biden in May of last year. So,
essentially if these if these rules do
go ahead, then companies are going to
need to get US permission for virtually
all exports of of AI accelerators from
the likes of Nvidia and also AMD. You
can see there didn't see too much
movement in the session. Both of those
stocks are under pressure, but but only
AMD ultimately settling in the red. But
as I said, yes, a substantive step here
and and
you know, really taking quite a formal
role in the industry. So, we've been
talking about the US becoming a sort of
gatekeeper of sorts.
Yeah, draft rules of course not
according to officials meant to function
as as an exports ban, but it is
something that's really going to need to
be worked out on a case-by-case basis,
it seems. Well, that's that's really
where this will affect businesses,
right? How will
How are they going to enforce this? How
will these rules
you know, the rules keep changing
anyway, but how will the rules work?
Yeah, I think so it's a great Bloomberg
scoop led by Mackenzie Hawkins, but does
have quite a lot of details in it in
terms of of the size of the deal and
that seems to be what it's going to come
down to. So, it depends essentially it
seems and this is according to to
officials and definitely on background
or uh sources, but but uh
that it depends how how many you want to
purchase. So, say you want to get a
thousand of of Nvidia's latest AI
accelerators. That seems like it's going
to be pretty straight simple process.
It's just going to be a a review through
the US Commerce Department. If you're
looking to build up say a a larger
cluster
that you're going to need more
accelerators, then you might require
some sort of of export license. But if
you're looking at a really major
deployment, so we're talking like north
of of 200,000 AI accelerators that
you're looking to purchase, that's when
the US government may need to engage
directly with a foreign government as
well. So, it's not just, you know,
company to US Commerce Department, it's
government to government when it's again
on that larger scale. But it it's it's
it's all up in the air, seems. It's
still not finalized. Details could
change. They could scrap this in favor
of of pursuing another approach. But as
I said, it is significant in the sense
that it's it's the most or the biggest
sort of move toward an export strategy
we've had since Trump went ahead and
scrapped that AI diffusion rule. And
it's not just, you know, singling out
China, which is what we've heard in the
past. This is a universal sort of
approach that they're looking into. Uh
we're also getting some news about
Anthropic and this dispute with the US
Defense Department. What's the latest on
that? Yeah, this has been something
that's been going on for weeks and and
it's it's certainly been getting a lot
of attention. So,
at the headline level, what you sort of
need to know is that Anthropic has been
negotiating with the Pentagon on how its
technology is going to be used. And what
they wanted was assurances around uh
their technology not being applied to
mass surveillance and also not in the
deployment of autonomous weapons. So,
that didn't sit well, as you can
imagine, with the Department of Defense.
And and Secretary Pete Heck says has
been mulling for a period now about
mulling or deeming the company to be a
supply chain risk. And that is what we
understand that they did earlier today.
Uh we didn't get the full read out, but
we did hear from from uh a government
official, essentially, this is what had
happened. And indeed, you saw that
reaction from Anthropic uh just going
into the top of the last hour saying
that they would actually now uh
pursue or challenge this ruling in
court. So, that was what Anthropic had
also said it was going to be doing. So,
a lot of questions around the legalities
of this. Uh the section that the the the
Department of Defense is is referring to
here section 3252, which governs how uh
the US or governs the US armed forces,
rather.
It is aimed at foreign entities, not
American based companies or ones that
are founded in the states as well. They
should also know that the company has
about 6 months to disengage from the
Pentagon. That's significant because
maybe it leaves the door open to some
sort of leeway for negotiations even
though relations are acrimonious. And
what I also think is probably most
interesting in this is that Anthropic's
technology is being used in Iran today
because it is one of the central LLMs
that's in the Maven system that's
operated by Palantir. It's essential for
military decision-making, helps them to
distill through a whole host of of data
essentially.
And so, it you know, the feedback that
that we hear from people that are within
the military said they actually really
like Claude. And so, it's not clear if
there's an obvious replacement.
Obviously, OpenAI has come out at the
end of last week to say that they would
be getting into into classified AI
themselves. So, again, Anthropic now
pushing back. This ruling from the US
Department affects Anthropic, too.
Well, thank you.
Um, Annabelle there, our tech
correspondent on all the latest in fact
her tying into what's taking place in
Iran right now takes us into uh, just an
update here. We're hearing well, two
things, right? So, about 7 minutes ago,
the Israeli military said that they
began broad-scale wave of strikes on
Iran. Now, a few minutes after that,
when I say a few minutes, about five or
six minutes after that, this other
headline crossing on the other side
talking about how missile strikes were
reported in east, west, and central
Tehran. Not it's unclear whether those
two things are well, they're clearly
connected, but whether or not those were
the same missiles that that were
launched and that then were seen as
causing explosions in Tehran is not
clear, but the you know, a few minutes
time, five to seven minutes, give or
take 10 if you're traveling at Mach 5 in
terms of that, that should be the time
it takes to go from launch to uh, to
target. But, that's what we know so far.
More on that plus plenty more
ahead. We'll take a short break. See you
on the other side of it.
President Xi Jinping is warning that
China faces more complex conditions and
deeper challenges ahead to meet its new
5-year economic targets. Let's bring our
chief Asia correspondent Stephen Engle.
He joins us now in Beijing. He's been
covering NPC for us this week.
What more did we hear from the
president, Steve?
Yeah, so it's a little bit more tea leaf
reading right now after Li Qiang's press
conference or not press conference, it
was his work report yesterday.
And when the numbers pretty much in the
forecast and the targets were pretty
much exactly in line with what we got
last year except for that GDP range
between 4 and 1/2 to 5% instead of
around 5%. Everything else is pretty
much the same. Defense spending, budget
deficit,
you know, at least initial
bond issuances, all that pretty much
exactly the same as last year. And
that's I think you had Li Daokui, the
PBOC advisor, on yesterday who pretty
much said stability is job number one
for the top leadership. So when I said
we're we're tea leaf reading right now
is because we got that comment from Xi
Jinping through CCTV. He was in the
halls of the Great Hall of the People
meeting with the Jiangsu province
delegation. It's a big technology center
in China. It is one of the top GDP
producers even though it's by size a
very small by land size a very small
province, but it is a in the engine of
innovation. So he was encouraging them
to find new avenues for technology
development as of course they're trying
to figure out the right algorithm if you
will to leverage their own indigenous
innovation with their own indigenous
made chips and be less reliant on the
United States. And of course
the situation in the Middle East and
also the uncertainty leading up into
this
summit with Donald Trump in just 3 weeks
time. Uh leads us to try and figure out
where they're calculating the biggest
risk and where they're calculating the
biggest opportunities of growth. That's
why we're looking forward to the press
conference later this afternoon 3:00
p.m. the five key economic leaders are
going to be giving a press conference.
Yeah, yeah, yeah Steve give us a give us
a preview. What can we glean from what's
been said into what they might say
today?
Well, I think we're going to be
listening quite closely of course to
Pang Gongcheng the PBOC governor on the
direction going forward. Anything he can
say about the pathway for their fixing
in the RMB in light of these stresses of
course with the finance minister we'll
get more indications as well of how the
coffers are looking at the municipal
level and the provincial level and the
NDRC maybe is the more interesting one
this time around given the oil shock of
course we've been talking about the last
few days and what's happening in the
Strait of Hormuz and the directive that
we got yesterday from the National
Development Reform Commission the top
planning body
essentially
ordering the nation's vast refining
companies to not export any of the
byproducts of their imported crude and
that's diesel and gasoline.
They are not a big exporter of gasoline
products and diesel refined crude but
they are number three in the region the
Asia Pacific and they need it for their
domestic economy in particular Uh and
that's why that uncertainty about
whether there's going to be a massive
spike further and prolonged in oil
prices especially when you consider the
oil tanker traffic through the Strait of
in Beijing for us.
29 a.m. in Tokyo Japanese markets are
heading out lunch break in just a moment
and we are seeing at least a bit of
recovery here when it comes to Japanese
equities of what has been
a very erratic week to say the least and
right now at least we're ending things
at least as we count down to this lunch
break on a slightly positive note. We're
up about a third of 1% here. It is quite
bifurcated though you say we just given
that you know Korea still
underperforming here HS Tech or at least
Hong Kong is doing a bit better than
onshore markets here today but at least
we've taken a little bit of breather in
that dollar strength as well. So you
have seen some of the G10 space
outperform like the Aussie dollar yen as
well we're seeing we're flat at 157
levels right now. Yeah
and so we're still it's it's come up in
conversations across markets how worried
should we be over the past few of energy
inflation you know at
at best it's it's an issue for markets
at worst it could result in some central
banks needing to respond to it quite
firmly in terms of rate
tightening we've heard as much as some
central banks talking about the fact
that they might they are watching it
closely that's what they need to say
whether or not they'll follow that up
with or hawkish rhetoric. Let's not
forget it's jobs day in the US. We
almost forgot it. Yeah
almost forgot about it.
>> I admit I did overlook that but yes it's
it's one of those it's one of those days
when It's almost like I think some
analysts say you kind of want a stronger
number just given that inflation
expectations have also been rising along
with this situation in in Iran If you
have a weaker number, that only kind of
fuels the sort of stackflation sort of
situation. That might not be good uh for
markets. So, that certainly is one thing
to watch when it comes to the US side of
things with the Fed. But, really this is
this story itself is the Asia sort of
impact, right? Where you're starting to
see these rate cut bets really
unraveling in a big way across EM and
developing Asia because of this oil
surge. Because of much of the region are
importers of crude. Yeah. Philippine
inflation was yesterday. Uh you had
Malaysian Central Bank, of course,
coming through as well. Two-year break
evens in the US are up 20 basis points.
Japan break evens, the break even rate
is up two basis points currently. Oil is
on track for the worst week in terms of
the biggest jump in oil prices since 20
uh 2022. And that really goes into
really very extremely relevant
conversations taking place in Bangkok.
Yeah. Are there really conversations
about, you know, withholding, you know,
cuts or a prolonged pause or even are
they even discussing, do we need to kind
of put a rate hike on the table here in
the next few months or so? Uh Malaysia
Central Bank meanwhile has kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged as it
warns of downside risks from the Middle
East conflict. And the cautious tone
does contrast with the behaviors of what
we've been seeing across fixed income
investors who have been positioning for
higher interest rates in the country.
Let's get more now from Haslinda Hashim
at the IMF annual meetings in Bangkok
with our next guest. Haslinda?
Well, that's right, Von.
Policy makers adopting a wait-and-see
approach. They want to see what the
implications might be maybe uh weeks
down the road. Here with me exclusively,
Malaysia's Second Finance Minister, Amir
Hamzah Azizan. Minister, good to have
you with us.
You said before that you think the
impact would be a pretty short-term
impact given that we're into the seventh
day. And given that Iran has said it
wants to up the ante. Do you still
maintain that view?
Well, I I think
if you look at what we've been through
for For year and a half, we've been
through a lot from a global perspective,
right? And the world has been a lot more
resilient than what people anticipated
to be, which is why I think the
immediate
impact to the market has been a lot
milder than what people had seen. And I
think it's giving us an opportunity to
wait and and explore what the challenges
are, and then figure out how to manage
through these events along the way.
Uh
cannot put the possibility that this
won't be a prolonged challenge, uh and I
think countries need to prepare for
that.
But we all live in a world that is very
different than we were maybe 5, 10 years
ago. Our supply chains are differently
configured. Our reliance on trade is a
lot different than what we were in the
past. So, you're referring to the
buffers that country have, and you seem
confident that Malaysia has the buffer
to last for how long?
No, I I I I think if you look at what
we've been our journey for the last 3
years, we've been
bringing back fiscal discipline.
And we've been doing a lot of subsidy
rationalization and creating spaces
along that way, and then also putting
money back in the hands of the citizens.
And that's creating a very very strong
domestic market that's actually
supported, and also engaging our
government-linked investment companies,
our government companies to also focus
about domestic investments. And that's
how it builds the buffer that you need
to create a
a robust domestic economy. And as we
were successful in bringing FDI,
the other engines of growth has helped
us to ride through a lot of changes as
But Minister, how long will your buffer
last if
Trump is right, 4 to 5 weeks? That's
okay. But some say 3 to 6 months.
No, I think if you look from an energy
supply base, I think we are in a very
reasonable shape. Malaysia is a net
energy supplier in the global horizon.
And from our energy mix in the country
also, we have a lot of dependence on gas
which we actually produce along the way.
So, I I
that part of the the supply chain is in
fairly decent shape. And again, as we
talked about what do you do from
creating engines of growth within
economy, domestic economies plays an
important part. And if you can continue
to do that, then you create
a bit more resilience than what
you would have in the past. So, growth
projection intact, ringgit projection
intact. Because just a month ago you
said that you expect the ringgit to
continue to rise, and you expect GDP to
also be better. No, if you look at what
we were a month ago, we didn't have the
Middle East crisis, right? Yeah.
However,
when the the end of the year results
came in for the fourth quarter, we were
a lot better than what we anticipated to
be. So, that hit that tailwind has
actually continued to support and
continue to power the the economy
forward.
Uh so, I think within the range of
forecast that we've alluded to, I think
we're in a safe zone. Yeah.
Whether we have room to to grow against
that, we'll just have to wait and see
how this pans out with the Middle East
crisis that's going on at this point in
time. The message I'm getting from you
is that this is a very resilient
economy,
yet the ringgit was among the hardest
hit in Asia. Why do you think that is
so? Isn't that evidence of
vulnerability? I wouldn't say
hardest hit. So, if you look at
uh you asked me last year, would the
ringgit cross four? We've crossed four.
Yeah, to the dollar. And this year we're
still up nearly 3%
year-to-date. So, I think the resilience
of the ringgit still remains because we
still have inflows still holding
at this point in time. How much upside
for the currency if that resilience
continues? I think your colleague
debated me here about 3 weeks ago. I
said
I've not taken out my crystal ball and
then actually do it, but I think
>> Take out the crystal ball.
I think it's important that we allow the
developments to actually work through
the system, and we'll see. Um but I
think the ringgits movements not only
are dependent on this crisis but also
the fundamentals that the economy is
displaying. As long as the economy has
the resilience, I think it will provide
support uh for the ringgit. But it is a
stronger dollar environment. We know
investors are you know
gravitating towards traditional havens
um and we're seeing an unraveling so to
speak of uh Asian particularly Southeast
Asian currencies. Is there reason to be
concerned? I mean it could be a case
where the ringgit gets dragged down
along with the other currencies. Well,
like I said, the ringgit's health is
strong. Yeah, um again it still remains
below four. Yeah,
um and uh
yeah, today they're still up nearly 3%.
So again, look at the fundamentals and
the fundamentals go back to where is
investments coming in? Is the projects
that have been brought in being
converted? Is it fueling the economy and
demand for ringgit? Uh is the domestic
economy still strong? Is powering ahead?
And that's still going on. So again, the
fundamentals are still in our favor. At
what oil price would you be concerned
about inflation? We had Bank Negara Mhm.
uh
you know, staying put pretty pretty
pretty much taking a cautious approach.
What's the view on inflation? What's the
forecast for inflation?
Again, I think it's it's only fair to
wait and see what happens along the way.
And as we
>> $80 $90 a barrel is okay?
If you look at what we've done, yeah,
what we've done is subsidy
rationalization and one of the key
things was actually to cushion the
economy uh from the subsidy
rationalization. So today from a diesel
point of view, what was a 100% subsidy
mechanism now has reduced to only about
45% of the fuel which is actually a
subsidized fuel that's in the market
today. Which means that whatever the
price is coming in is being passed
through to the system. So the cushions
and the and the resilience that have
been built in and the buffers is
actually worked.
On balance, given Petronas and its
contribution to the economy, are you in
a good position? Is it enough to buffer
what that we may see in oil prices?
I think we have a good mechanism that's
worked, yeah, along the way. Well, in
the past we were keeping prices through
subsidies and sustaining that. Which
meant that the fiscal pressure on the
government was always very very high.
But we did our subsidy rationalization,
we reduced that risk to to that amount.
And you've seen us move prices every
week, which means the pass-through to
the economy is also happening and the
the sustaining of inflation at the level
today still remains within range.
Minister, this is just one of our
question. The biggest risk for you? Mhm.
Biggest risk is I think fundamentally
how long this will go. And we all have
to to live in reality.
So, we hope that we would cooler heads
will will prevail and we will come back
to a lot more order in the world today
and lives will be best looked after.
And then this crisis resolves in in you
know
diplomatically viable and possible
positive way.
In in that sense
the world can then begin to move ahead.
The world has shown that is a lot more
resilient than it was in the past and
last year was a try a lot of things in
terms of what trade has actually done.
And as long as we have
that range of of of
adjustments, we're okay.
The key challenge will be to develop if
this is a prolonged 6 months, 9 months,
12 months. Then everybody really has to
reassess again in terms of what we do.
From a Malaysian perspective we do what
we can control with. And I think one of
the key things that we've been focused
about is how do you build your fast
buffers? How do you build your different
engines of growth? And that's the secret
of building resilience in the economy.
Minister, thank you so much for that.
Malaysian Finance Minister Amir Hamzah
Azizan and Dave Yvonne, of course, it is
about building those buffers and it does
seem like Asia is in a better position
this time round, but it really is about
the duration of this Iran war. The
longer it persists, the risks become way
bigger.
Yeah, and
hopefully it doesn't, I think is the I
think the
global consensus there. Global hope,
let's put it that way. Haslinda, thank
you. Haslinda Amin
in Thailand for us. More coming up there
with Haslinda. Very high-profile guests
coming through out of the IMF conference
later today. Check it out on your
screens.
Um of course
at those times also too, right? So you
have the IMF boss and of course you also
have the central bank governors at a Sri
Lanka and also the Philippines. Yeah,
meanwhile we've been talking to PBOC
advisor Huang Yiping and he says that
China's economic slowdown is not a
crisis, but still requires decisive
policy action. Speaking to us earlier,
Huang says China is just undergoing a
natural deceleration as the economy
matures.
A couple of other things that we
probably should have paid attention to.
Number one, growth has been slowing down
for the past
one and a half of decades. To some
extent, that's a natural process because
China has become a lot more advanced and
therefore it's natural to expect growth
to come down to some extent, but
obviously people feel that the slowdown
is a bit more than expected. That's why
macroeconomic policy is important and I
do expect more policy actions from both
Ministry of Finance and the PBOC. But at
the same time, we should also realize
the slowing down is also a result of a
structural adjustment. The older
industries
going out, but we needed to develop the
new industries to change of the growth
model can only happen gradually and uh
a a lot of policy and a market efforts.
So, um bottom line is we probably should
not expect very aggressive big
macro policy to
to support the growth. Um the this is
not like a crisis time you needed the
government to take a very decisive
actions. This is uh what I think
um I I I take away from the government
the policy report. Basically saying
growth need to be supported, but it
needs to be done through structure
adjustment. There is this sort of
conflict though, right? That the
government prioritizing higher
manufacturing, innovation, this whole
kind of self-sufficiency
at a time when there's also this need to
boost consumption. How do you square the
two where one is about supply-side
adjustment, the other is more about
boosting demand? What does China need
more now?
The government listed 10 policy
priorities, but my takeaway from the
Central Economic Work Conference in
December last year, there probably three
things the government want to emphasize.
Number one is expanding domestic demand,
particularly consumption. Number two is
to develop um the new quality productive
force. And the number three is to
resolve some of the existing risks. So,
I don't actually think um that the
government is ignoring or under
emphasizing the importance of boosting
consumption, but consumption can only be
boosted through a gradual process. You
can't expect that the government does
something in macro macro policy and a
consumption pick it up
dramatically. If you look at the
experiences of other East Asian
economies, successful ones like a Japan,
um consumption share of GDP increased
over a very long period like three to
four decades. So, we shouldn't expect
that the consumption problem will go
away immediately. But also, I should
remind you that consumption as a share
of GDP has been on the rise. The bottom
number what I saw was in 2010 when
consumption was only about 47% of GDP.
Today, it's something like a 57% of GDP.
So,
share of GDP is already on the rise, but
this is probably not high enough. This
is why the government need to focus more
on income and the confidence of the
households. But I think we all would
agree these things can only happen
gradually. We're aware of course what's
going on across the world, higher energy
prices, the spike in global energy
prices.
Um do we need Can we look through that
in as far as the transmission effects to
inflation in China's concerned? How do
you look at that issue?
Well, um
whether or not that have a big impact on
inflation depends number one what
happens to um the energy prices. But as
I said and we discussed just a minute
ago, um at the moment the key concern is
lack of inflation, not too high
inflation. So, if um the uncertainties
created by the recent um geopolitical
event cause some um rise in the energy
price and um also inflation rate, it
won't be uh devastating for China. Um
and it obviously will have some impact.
I think the greatest concern here is
number one whether that would endanger
um energy security for um China. And the
number two, um whether or not that will
um further affect um the trade potential
going forward. These are the things I
think we should pay more attention to on
top of the uncertainties created. So, um
overall, I'm not too worried about the
material impact on the Chinese economy,
but uncertainty is something that we all
hate.
And that was a PBOC advisor, Huang
Yiping, there speaking exclusively with
us earlier on. Of course, you can
rewatch that interview on our Bloomberg
video hub. Subscribers can explore live
streaming news and all of our TV
programs there. Make sure to check it
out at bloomberg.com/videos. videos.
We'll continue to follow continue this
the fallout or follow the fallout when
it comes to this Iranian war. And one of
the things is, of course, from our big
take here today, whether this conflict
is raising doubts about the UAE's status
as a hub for the global economy. Once a
magnet for talent, the conflict is
making some companies reconsider hiring,
while expats are considering leaving.
Yeah, let's bring in Felipe Pacheco here
on set with us to talk us through it.
It's really big exercise and what it's
done in terms of the reputation here.
What have you heard so far in terms of
just the people that you speak to?
>> Dave, I think it's fair to say that
there is a clear damage to the
reputation, right? And this is a
country, especially the UAE,
if you look within the Gulf, they worked
very, very hard to establish themselves
as part of this global discussion when
it comes to to finance, to become a hub
not just of deployment of capital, but
also to attract capital, to attract
professionals. We have, for example, if
we look at the DIFC, which is the
equivalent of Centro in Dubai, let's
say. It's where
where all of the banks are, that's where
Bloomberg is, that's where the people we
talk to. You can easily meet all of them
within
a few minutes.
There were 100 uh funds that were
registered at the beginning
uh of this year. That's more than double
the number that we had in the beginning
of 2024. All of these people are
flocking to the have been flocking to
the UAE for low taxes, extremely uh high
quality of life. You can travel pretty
much anywhere from there. But I think
that right now everyone is questioning
if this is sustainable, if the UAE can
actually stay there and survive this
conflict that nobody knows for how long
it may last. When you talk to people on
the ground or those that were even
considering going there, everyone says
that the basically the the base is the
same. Nothing changed in terms of how uh
important it is to be there, but how are
you going to be uh doing that physically
or even for how long can you withstand
uh the missiles being intercepted by the
by the defense system? It's very
stressful and and people are stressed. I
think that's fair to say right now. I
mean, certainly China has We've seen a
lot of exchange between China and the
Middle East as well. How do you see
these going to efforts being done by by
cities like Dubai, by cities like Abu
Dhabi in attracting a lot of capital as
well as talent? That it's been clear,
Yvonne, and it's funny because we've
been talking over the past few years
with a lot of people from Hong Kong that
decided to to move to the Gulf because
the opportunities were there, the money
was there. Uh Hong Kong is known for
being low tax environment. Then you go
to a zero tax environment on the
personal level. So it's very, very, very
attractive, especially when this place
is becoming a lot more of the global
conversation when it comes to finance. I
think Abu Dhabi, for example, you have
some of the major
uh global funds that were moving there.
The sovereign wealth funds themselves
have over 2 trillion US dollars in
capital to deploy everywhere. We're not
just talking about the Gulf. So there
are jobs, there are interesting
opportunities. Traders that never
thought about uh being that part of the
globe. Uh hedge fund managers were
there, let's say, since the the end of
COVID. At the same time, if this is
going to last, if people will keep doing
that um that move, I think right now
it's very very hard to say.
>> Mhm. Yeah, you know, I recall it was the
the
the the head of the HKX before Bonnie
Chan
a Guzin, right? And I think some of the
interviews we did with him, it always
started off with how many times have you
been to Middle East? And then he would
go, "I've been there five times." And
obviously with Bonnie and other Hong
Kong leaders. And I wondered the Hong
Kong transmission effect and that link.
Can we should we expect a fallout or am
I overthinking?
>> That's a very good point, uh Dave. We
had like, for example, over the past 2
years, we had two uh conferences hosted
here in Hong Kong between the HKX and
the Saudi exchange, which also a major
player in that region. They've signed
MOUs with ADX, uh which is the one in
Abu Dhabi, the same thing in Dubai.
There is a clear that some ETFs were
launched both ways to trying to make
sure that this inflow and this I think
more important than anything is there's
been a very very strong conversation
happening between China, between Hong
Kong, and between the Gulf over the past
uh 3 to 4 years. I think that it did The
importance between both parts doesn't
diminish, but at the same time Hong Kong
is looking at how maybe some of the
family offices that are based there,
they could be rethinking their strategy
and come back here or even not deploy as
much or build as big of a strategy there
as they were uh thinking before. our job
right now is to know how this this is
going to happen because it's still very
unclear. Filipe, great stuff. Thank you,
Filipe Botelho, who covers well for us.
And of course, uh feel free to check out
more on that big take here today. This
week's also Hong Kong edition newsletter
looks at the war's impact on lives of
people who moved from Hong Kong to the
Gulf as well. You can read that and
subscribe by scanning the QR code on
your screen there. You're watching The
China Show.
>> Right. So, welcome back. Before you wrap
up the show, let's take a glance at cash
markets across the region, some of them
at least. There's a big briefing, of
course. Stay tuned for that in the
afternoon out of Beijing. That's it from
us here on the China Show. We will see
you all on Monday.